E-GEO: A Testbed for Generative Engine Optimization in
E-Commerce
Puneet S. Bagga∗ Vivek F. Farias† Tamar Korkotashvili‡

arXiv:2511.20867v1 [cs.IR] 25 Nov 2025

Tianyi Peng§ Yuhang Wu§
This version: November 25, 2025

Abstract
With the rise of large language models (LLMs), generative engines are becoming powerful
alternatives to traditional search, reshaping retrieval tasks. In e-commerce, for instance, conversational shopping agents now guide consumers to relevant products. This shift has created the
need for generative engine optimization (GEO)—improving content visibility and relevance for
generative engines. Yet despite its growing importance, current GEO practices are ad hoc, and
their impacts remain poorly understood, especially in e-commerce. We address this gap by introducing E-GEO, the first benchmark built specifically for e-commerce GEO. E-GEO contains
over 7,000 realistic, multi-sentence consumer product queries paired with relevant listings, capturing rich intent, constraints, preferences, and shopping contexts that existing datasets largely
miss. Using this benchmark, we conduct the first large-scale empirical study of e-commerce
GEO, evaluating 15 common rewriting heuristics and comparing their empirical performance.
To move beyond heuristics, we further formulate GEO as a tractable optimization problem
and develop a lightweight iterative prompt-optimization algorithm that can significantly outperform these baselines. Surprisingly, the optimized prompts reveal a stable, domain-agnostic
pattern—suggesting the existence of a “universally effective” GEO strategy. Our data and code
are publicly available at https://github.com/psbagga17/E-GEO.1

Keywords: Generative Engine Optimization, Large Language Models, Benchmark Dataset, Generative AI in E-commerce, Prompt Optimization

1

Introduction

Over the last few decades, search engine optimization (SEO) has shaped how online content is produced, structured, and surfaced to users. By tailoring to the preferences of search engines such as
Google and Bing, content creators influence where their webpages appear among ranked search results and, in turn, drive traffic and engagement. The landscape is now shifting, as advances in large
language models (LLMs) have given rise to generative engines—often deployed as chatbots—that
offer users an alternative way to access information. Recent studies have observed reduced user
engagement with traditional search platforms (Sommerfeld et al., 2025; Toscano, 2025), especially
∗

Department of Industrial Engineering and Operations Research, Columbia University
Sloan School of Management, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
‡
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
§
Decision, Risk, and Operations Division, Columbia Business School.
1
Author names are ordered alphabetically.
†

1

when generative engines can deliver comparable content (Lyu et al., 2025). This behavioral shift
raises a new question:
What properties of online content determine whether a generative engine “likes” it?
Early findings indicate that these signals may diverge substantially from the classical SEO playbook
(Aggarwal et al., 2024; Allouah et al., 2025). Consequently, generative engine optimization (GEO),
the practice of improving the visibility and relevance of content for generative engines, has become
an emerging concern for creators and businesses (Berry, 2025; Madhavan, 2025).
Despite this growing interest, current GEO practices are largely heuristic, relying on rules of
thumb such as the use of quotations, authoritative tone, or FAQ-style structures (Aggarwal et al.,
2024; Berry, 2025). Yet it remains unclear whether these interventions produce meaningful value,
in part because existing metrics like the impression score (Aggarwal et al., 2024) do not translate
directly to economic impact. This gap makes e-commerce a natural testbed, as it provides an
environment where changes in the product’s ranking can be measured in concrete financial terms.
Moreover, conversational shopping tools backed by generative engines are gaining traction: Amazon
has launched its AI-powered shopping assistant (Mehta and Chilimbi, 2024), and other e-commerce
platforms are following suit (Bellan, 2025). These developments position e-commerce GEO as both
practically important and understudied.
In this work, we propose a systematic and data-driven framework for studying GEO in ecommerce. Our contributions include:
1. Benchmark dataset. We introduce E-GEO, a novel dataset of 7,000+ long-form Reddit
product queries matched with Amazon listings, providing the first-of-its-kind benchmark that
captures real-world consumer intent for GEO.
2. Evaluation of existing heuristics. We assess 15 heuristic rewriting strategies inspired by
current GEO practices, providing the first empirical comparison of their effectiveness in an
e-commerce context.
3. Optimization-based GEO formulation. We cast GEO as an operationalizable optimization problem that aligns naturally with existing prompt-optimization literature. We demonstrate that even a simple optimization algorithm can outperform heuristic methods by a
substantial margin.
4. Generalizable rewriting strategy. By examining optimized prompts, we uncover evidence
of a “universally effective” rewriting strategy that generalizes across queries and domains,
suggesting that systematic optimization obviates the need for ad hoc heuristics.

2

Literature Review

The concept of generative engine optimization (GEO) was first introduced by Aggarwal et al.
(2024), who evaluated several heuristics for increasing a source’s visibility within generative engine
outputs based on a proposed impression score that combines word count, citation position, and
GPT-3.5-based quality assessments. While foundational, this work centers on heuristics and lacks
a systematic optimization framework, and the impression score does not translate directly to commercial value in e-commerce settings. A separate line of research examines prompt injection and
manipulation attacks on LLMs (Kumar and Lakkaraju, 2024; Pfrommer et al., 2024) in a similar
setting. Although these studies demonstrate that model outputs can be systematically influenced,

2

their objectives are adversarial and exploitative in nature rather than improving legitimate visibility. Overall, the GEO literature remains nascent, with many open questions regarding effective
strategies and their practical impacts.
Our work intersects with the literature on prompt optimization. Early work such as Zhou et al.
(2023) introduced automatic prompt engineering (APE), and many subsequent papers have explored methods for refining or adapting prompts for downstream tasks. The optimization approach
we adopt is particularly inspired by the reflection module in GEPA (Agrawal et al., 2025). Our
setting also relates to recent interest in LLM-backed shopping assistants (Allouah et al., 2025) and
the broader literature on LLM-empowered recommender systems (Wu et al., 2024). These works
highlight the shift toward conversational, intent-rich interactions in online platforms, precisely the
prime context for GEO.

3

GEO in E-Commerce

3.1

Generative Engine

On a high level, generative engines in e-commerce settings can be viewed as instances of retrievalaugmented generation (RAG) (Lewis et al., 2020). As illustrated in Figure 1, when a user submits
a product-related query, the system first performs a retrieval step that gathers a short catalog of
relevant listings from the platform’s product pool. The generative engine then synthesizes a naturallanguage response that often includes an accompanying ranked list of recommended products,
effectively functioning as a re-ranker that orders the retrieved items based on their alignment with
the inferred user intent, preferences, and constraints.
Retrieval

Query
Generative

Product

Engine

Pool

Ranked
products

Retrieved
products

Figure 1: Generative Engine in E-Commerce.

3.2

The GEO Process

We conceptualize GEO as a mapping that rewrites a product description to improve its ranking
across user queries, without access to the queries themselves (Figure 2). Similar to GEO in web
search, it is natural to hypothesize that certain rewriting strategies, such as emphasizing salient
attributes or adopting particular linguistic styles, can systematically affect downstream exposure.
In e-commerce, however, this objective is more concrete and operationalizable, as it maps directly
to observable rankings and measurable commercial outcomes.
In web search-oriented GEO, generative responses typically consist of free-form text interleaved
with citations to external sources, where a source’s “visibility” is inherently indirect and difficult
to quantify. To formalize this notion, Aggarwal et al. (2024) proposed the impression score, which
combines word count, citation position, and GPT-3.5-based quality assessments. While useful as
a proxy, this measure does not have a clear behavioral or economic interpretation, and it remains
unclear, for example, what a marginal improvement implies for user engagement.
3

By contrast, GEO in e-commerce admits a much cleaner objective: improving a product’s
rank in the generative engine’s output. This ranking signal is directly observable and reproducible
through widely available LLM APIs. Moreover, a large empirical literature shows that higher
rankings translate strongly into increased clicks, conversions, and revenue (e.g., see Baye et al.
(2009) and references therein), making GEO performance readily interpretable in economic terms.

Query
“I'm in my 20s,
and I want to
find a basic set
of kitchen
knives that,
with proper
care, will
outlive me.”

,

Product A
Product B
Product C
Product D
Product E

Generative
Engine
Ranking without GEO

1. Product D
2. Product B
3. Product C
4. Product E
5. Product A

Product E: Knife set for kitchen…

GEO

Query

,

Product E’: Premium durable knife set
with minimal upkeep needed

Product A
Product B
Product C
Product D
Product E’

Generative
Engine
Ranking with GEO

1. Product E’
2. Product D
3. Product B
4. Product C
5. Product A

Figure 2: The GEO process. A GEO module rewrites product descriptions to enhance placement
in generative-engine rankings.
Following Aggarwal et al. (2024), we explicitly separate retrieval and re-ranking in both formulation and implementation. This design is motivated by two considerations. First, large-scale
retrieval is typically handled by highly optimized, specialized systems, while re-ranking benefits
from the richer contextual reasoning afforded by LLMs. Second, GEO is constrained to preserve
the semantic content of product descriptions, implying that standard retrieval mechanisms, whether
embedding-based or keyword-based, should be largely invariant to rewriting. Practically, a product
needs to make it to the top-listed candidates first before the GEO process can make a meaningful
impact on its ranking.

4

Dataset: E-GEO

4.1

Queries

E-commerce retrieval datasets are prolific (Papenmeier et al., 2021; Chen et al., 2022; Reddy et al.,
2022) but not suitable for studying GEO due to fundamental differences in user queries. See
Table 1 for details. This gap motivates our construction of a new dataset specifically designed
for e-commerce GEO. To obtain realistic product-seeking requests, we source queries from the
BuyItForLife subreddit,2 a community that frequently discusses durable, high-quality products to
purchase. Starting with a comprehensive crawl using publicly available data dumps under the
2

https://www.reddit.com/r/BuyItForLife/.

4

Table 1: Existing e-commerce retrieval datasets primarily contain short keyword queries, whereas
our E-GEO dataset consists of rich, context-heavy natural-language requests that better reflect real
interactions with shopping agents.
Existing Product Search Datasets

E-GEO (Ours)

• white leather chair (Chen et al., 2022)
• laundry basket with wheels (Chen
et al., 2022)
• self-seal envelopes without window
(Reddy et al., 2022)
• #2 pencils not sharpened (Reddy
et al., 2022)
• I want a laptop primarily for internet
use, it needs to be light with a long
battery life (Papenmeier et al., 2021)
• A short zipped teddy coat, probably
in pink or black (Papenmeier et al.,
2021)

• Request: Sandals. My two most recent pairs lasted
about two years with frequent use (roughly three
times a week), but when the last pair broke and I
bought a new one, it failed within three days due
to poor strap stitching. Are there any reputable
brands that make good quality, sturdy sandals?
Preferably slip-ons, possibly leather? I have a decent budget but nothing in the luxury brand range
(e.g., Gucci).
• I’m looking for an alarm clock where I can set
a different alarm time for each day of the week.
Other features that would be nice, but not critical, include a projection on the wall or ceiling and
weather or temperature display. I found American
Innovative’s Neverlate alarm clock, but it has poor
build quality according to the comments. Is there
anything similar?

pushshift subreddit,3 we use GPT-4o-mini to identify 141,105 recommendation-oriented requests
that include nontrivial intent details and edit them minimally to ensure correct formatting. To
construct a clean and manageable benchmark for GEO evaluation, we further use GPT-4o to arrive
at a final set of 7,151 high-quality queries that explicitly ask for recommendations on products to
purchase. Examples of queries from our dataset and existing datasets are presented in Table 1.

4.2

Products

To obtain product listings, we use the Amazon Reviews dataset (Hou et al., 2024), which contains
information for over 48 million products across more than 30 categories (e.g., Electronics, Home &
Kitchen). Beyond product titles, the dataset includes detailed descriptions and feature lists, providing rich textual content for GEO. For each of the 7,151 curated queries, we retrieve relevant products
from this corpus using the all-MiniLM-L6-v2 sentence encoder for efficient nearest-neighbor search.
We retain the top 10 products ranked by embedding cosine similarity. The final dataset contains
52,165 unique products. While more advanced retrieval techniques could further improve candidate
quality, we leave that to future work as such enhancements are orthogonal to our focus on GEO.

5

Experiments

5.1

Implementation Details

Generative Engine. We use GPT-4o as the generative engine responsible for re-ranking. To
approximate real-world behavior, we design system and user prompts that mimic typical user
3

https://www.reddit.com/r/pushshift/.

5

interactions (Appendix A). Specifically, we adopt the CL4R1T4S system prompt4 , which is reported
to resemble the web interface prompt of GPT-4o. The user prompt is intentionally minimalist,
asking the model to rank ten candidate products for a given query. Although real users may
exhibit a diverse range of interaction styles, this setup isolates the core ranking behavior. We
observe qualitatively similar results when substituting other LLMs such as Claude.
GEO Module. The GEO procedure is implemented as a rewriting LLM (also GPT-4o) controlled
via its user prompt, which specifies rewriting behaviors such as adopting an advertisement-like
style or emphasizing unique advantages. Appendix C.1 provides the fixed system prompt, and
Appendix C.2 lists the 15 heuristic user prompts (to be optimized). As proprietary models cannot
be fine-tuned directly, we treat GEO as a prompt meta-optimization problem. This design allows
the direct integration of alternative prompt-optimization methods (Zhou et al., 2023; Agrawal et al.,
2025) within our framework.
Evaluation Metric. We evaluate GEO performance through ranking improvement. For each
query, we sample a product from the retrieved candidate set and compare its rank before and after
rewriting its description. The metric is the change in rank position, with positive values indicating
improved placement. Overall performance is reported as the average rank change across a set of
queries.

5.2

Prompt Meta-Optimization

We adopt a lightweight optimization method inspired by the reflection module in GEPA (Agrawal
et al., 2025), shown in Algorithm 1. At each iteration, the current prompt π is evaluated on
a training batch, and the prompt and its performance are appended to a history H. A metaoptimizer M —implemented as a separate GPT-4o instance (prompts are in Appendix B)—receives
the current prompt, its batch performance, and the full history, and produces a revised prompt via
reflective self-critique.
Because the procedure is zeroth-order and relies on the meta-optimizer’s implicit search, the
final prompt is not necessarily optimal. We therefore maintain a validation-tracked best prompt
π ⋆ , initialized as π0 , and updated whenever validation performance improves. Upon completion of
training, π ⋆ is evaluated on the test set.
Although more advanced methods could be incorporated, this simple strategy already provides
a strong, systematic baseline and serves as a modular interface for plugging in alternative promptoptimization algorithms. We use 1,000 queries for training, 1,000 for validation, and 5,151 for
testing. Each initial prompt is optimized for a single epoch using 10 batches of size 100. Increasing the training set size or number of epochs does not meaningfully affect validation or test
performance.5

5.3

Initial Prompts and Performance

Inspired by prior GEO heuristics (Aggarwal et al., 2024; Berry, 2025; Madhavan, 2025), we construct
15 initial prompts spanning diverse rewriting strategies. Table 2 reports their descriptions and
initial and optimized test performance; full prompts appear in Appendix C.2 and Appendix C.3.
4

https://github.com/elder-plinius/CL4R1T4S.
We trained three prompts (advertisement, clickable, and competitive) for five epochs. Their test performances
(mean ± s.e.) were 1.25 ± 0.04, 0.90 ± 0.04, and 1.25 ± 0.04, respectively, comparable to single-epoch results (1.20
± 0.04, 1.25 ± 0.04, 1.61 ± 0.04). Validation curves also indicate saturation after approximately 500 training queries.
5

6

Algorithm 1 Prompt Meta-Optimization for GEO
Require: Training set Dtrain , validation set Dval , test set Dtest ; epochs E; batches per epoch B;
batch size m; ranking model R; rewriting model GEO; meta-optimizer model M
1: Initialize current prompt π ← π0
2: Initialize best prompt π ⋆ ← π0
3: Initialize best validation score bestVal ← −∞
4: Initialize history buffer H ← ∅
5: for e = 1 to E do
▷ Outer loop over epochs
B
6:
Randomly partition Dtrain into batches {Bb }b=1 of size m
7:
for b = 1 to B do
▷ Iterate over training batches
(e,b)
8:
Strain ← Eval(GEO, π, Bb , R)
▷ Evaluate current prompt on training batch
(e,b)
9:
H ← H ∪ {(e, b, π, Strain )}
▷ Store trajectory for reflection
10:
v ← Eval(GEO, π, Dval , R)
▷ Compute validation performance
11:
if v > bestVal then
12:
bestVal ← v
13:
π⋆ ← π
▷ Track best-performing prompt on validation set
14:
end if
(e,b)
15:
π ← M (π, Strain , H)
▷ Meta-optimizer proposes revised prompt via reflection
16:
end for
17: end for
18: return π ⋆
▷ Output best validated prompt

Most human-written prompts provide little to no benefit, as 10 of the 15 yield negligible or
even negative changes in ranking, and the best achieves an average improvement of only +0.71. In
contrast, all optimized prompts produce consistent gains, with 11 out of 15 improving ranking by
at least +1, and even the weakest optimization achieving a +0.68 improvement. Although these
differences appear modest, industry estimates indicate that a single-rank increase can translate to
tens of thousands of dollars in annual revenue for just one product.6 The sharp gap between initial
and optimized performance highlights the value of systematic prompt optimization over ad hoc
heuristics.
As a negative control, the storytelling prompt instructs the model to produce narrative text
while explicitly suppressing factual product details. As expected, it performs poorly in its initial
form (−4.03). After optimization, however, it achieves a +1.22 improvement, demonstrating the
flexibility of the framework and its ability to recover effective strategies from weak starting points.

5.4

Evidence for a Universally Effective Rewriting Strategy

In addition to the overall performance gains, we find that several stylistic patterns consistently
emerge across the 15 optimized prompts, regardless the initial prompts. A list of 10 features of
interest are described in Table 3, and their presence in each initial and optimized prompt is summarized in Figure 3. Comparison of the initial and optimized prompts reveals a striking convergence:
while the initial prompts exhibit diverse and often non-overlapping features, the optimized prompts
consistently show shared characteristics. Furthermore, these features are emergent: they are not
explicitly programmed into the meta-optimizer but arise naturally from the optimization process.
Combined with the fact that even an initial prompt as far-fetched as storytelling can be transformed
6

https://titannetwork.com/amazon-seo

7

Table 2: Initial Prompts and Initial and Optimized Performance (Mean and Standard Error)
Prompt

Description

Advertisement
Authoritative
Clickable
Competitive
Diverse
FAQ
Fluent
Format
Language
Minimalist
Quality
Storytelling
Technical
Trick
Unique

Advertisement-like style.
Confident, assertive tone.
Persuasive & compelling.
Highlight unique advantages.
Reflect inclusivity.
Add an FAQ.
Improve linguistic flow.
Use headings & bullets.
Use foreign expressions.
Reduce to a single sentence.
Emphasize product quality.
Write a creative short story.
Use technical terminology.
Format like LLM output.
Use rare vocabulary.

Init. Prompts

Optimized

−0.43 (0.04)
−0.06 (0.04)
+0.19 (0.04)
+0.71 (0.04)
+0.15 (0.04)
+0.06 (0.04)
+0.02 (0.04)
−0.35 (0.04)
+0.07 (0.04)
−1.66 (0.04)
+0.65 (0.04)
−4.03 (0.05)
−0.49 (0.04)
+0.28 (0.05)
−0.26 (0.04)

+1.20 (0.04)
+0.77 (0.04)
+1.25 (0.04)
+1.61 (0.05)
+1.23 (0.04)
+1.20 (0.04)
+0.86 (0.04)
+0.68 (0.04)
+1.10 (0.04)
+1.10 (0.04)
+0.69 (0.04)
+1.22 (0.04)
+1.17 (0.04)
+1.15 (0.04)
+1.10 (0.04)

into an effective rewriting strategy, this convergence provides strong evidence for the existence of
a broadly effective GEO strategy that transcends specific initial prompts.
Furthermore, all initial prompts except storytelling enforce factual preservation. After optimization, 12 of 15 prompts retain this constraint, suggesting that the optimizer reliably identifies
factuality as a beneficial property. This suggests that the improvements produced by our GEO
procedure reflect genuine, non-adversarial enhancements rather than exploitative manipulations.
Feature
Ranking
User Intent
Competitiveness
Reviews Ratings
Compelling
Authoritativeness
Unique Selling Points
Urgent Call
Easily Scannable
Maintains Factuality

Description
Emphasizes the goal of achieving a higher rank.
Anticipates and aligns with user intent.
Compares against other products or competitors.
Draws on positive customer reviews as external evidence.
Adopts a compelling and persuasive narrative tone.
Uses a confident and authoritative voice.
Focuses on the product’s unique features.
Includes a sense of urgency or scarcity.
Uses headings, bullet points, or formatting for easy reading.
Preserves the original factual content of the description.

Table 3: Features of Interest in Optimized Prompts

6

Discussion

We present the first systematic study of generative engine optimization (GEO) in e-commerce,
supported by a new dataset of realistic, intent-rich product queries paired with product listings.
Our results demonstrate that simple, optimization-driven rewriting strategies can reliably improve
product rankings in generative engine outputs and consistently outperform heuristic baselines.
8

Figure 3: Feature presence heatmaps: Initial (left) vs. Optimized (right) prompts. Red indicates
absence; green indicates presence. Optimized prompts consistently incorporate key features such
as ranking emphasis, user intent alignment, competitiveness, and external evidence, suggesting a
universally effective rewriting strategy. Notably, most optimized prompts maintain the factuality
requirement present in the initial prompts, indicating that the meta-optimization process reliably
identifies factuality as an important feature.
Beyond performance gains, we identify stable rewriting patterns that generalize across products
and query types, suggesting that effective GEO is governed by transferable structural principles
rather than ad hoc prompt engineering.
Our study opens several promising directions for future research. First, an important next step
is to study equilibrium dynamics when GEO becomes universally adopted, i.e., when all sellers
actively optimize their product descriptions, potentially leading to congestion effects, strategic
arms races, or reduced informativeness of content. Second, extending GEO to multi-modal product
representations such as images and videos may yield richer optimization strategies. Finally, fairness
and market-design questions arise naturally: GEO may advantage sophisticated sellers and widen
platform inequalities, motivating work on regulation, guardrails, and platform-level design.
Overall, we believe that GEO represents a fertile intersection of LLM capabilities, e-commerce
dynamics, and optimization theory, with many exciting avenues for future exploration. We hope
our work serves as a foundation for this emerging area.

9

References
Aggarwal, P., Murahari, V., Rajpurohit, T., Kalyan, A., Narasimhan, K. and Deshpande, A. (2024). Geo: Generative engine optimization. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM
SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. KDD ’24, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3637528.3671900
Agrawal, L. A., Tan, S., Soylu, D., Ziems, N., Khare, R., Opsahl-Ong, K., Singhvi, A.,
Shandilya, H., Ryan, M. J., Jiang, M., Potts, C., Sen, K., Dimakis, A. G., Stoica, I.,
Klein, D., Zaharia, M. and Khattab, O. (2025). Gepa: Reflective prompt evolution can
outperform reinforcement learning.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.19457
Allouah, A., Besbes, O., Figueroa, J. D., Kanoria, Y. and Kumar, A. (2025). What is
your ai agent buying? evaluation, implications and emerging questions for agentic e-commerce.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2508.02630
Baye, M. R., Gatti, J. R. J., Kattuman, P. and Morgan, J. (2009). Clicks, discontinuities,
and firm demand online. Journal of Economics & Management Strategy 18 935–975.
Bellan,
R.
(2025).
Openai
takes
on
google,
amazon
with
new
agentic
shopping
system.
https://techcrunch.com/2025/09/29/
openai-takes-on-google-amazon-with-new-agentic-shopping-system/.
Berry, S. (2025). What is answer engine optimization? the seo’s guide to aeo. https://www.
seo.com/ai/answer-engine-optimization/.
Chen, Y., Liu, S., Liu, Z., Sun, W., Baltrunas, L. and Schroeder, B. (2022). Wands:
Dataset for product search relevance assessment. In Advances in Information Retrieval (M. Hagen, S. Verberne, C. Macdonald, C. Seifert, K. Balog, K. Nørvåg and V. Setty, eds.). Springer
International Publishing, New York, NY, USA.
Hou, Y., Li, J., He, Z., Yan, A., Chen, X. and McAuley, J. (2024). Bridging language and
items for retrieval and recommendation.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.03952
Kumar, A. and Lakkaraju, H. (2024). Manipulating large language models to increase product
visibility.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2404.07981
Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., Karpukhin, V., Goyal, N., Küttler, H.,
Lewis, M., Yih, W.-t., Rocktäschel, T., Riedel, S. and Kiela, D. (2020). Retrievalaugmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. In Proceedings of the 34th International
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems. NIPS ’20, Curran Associates Inc., Red
Hook, NY, USA.
Lyu, L., Siderius, J., Li, H., Acemoglu, D., Huttenlocher, D. and Ozdaglar, A. (2025).
Wikipedia contributions in the wake of chatgpt. In Companion Proceedings of the ACM on Web
Conference 2025. WWW ’25, Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3701716.3715543

10

Madhavan, K. (2025).
Optimizing your content for inclusion in ai search
answers.
https://about.ads.microsoft.com/en/blog/post/october-2025/
optimizing-your-content-for-inclusion-in-ai-search-answers.
Mehta, R. and Chilimbi, T. (2024). Amazon announces rufus, a new generative ai-powered conversational shopping experience. https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/retail/amazon-rufus.
Papenmeier, A., Kern, D., Hienert, D., Sliwa, A., Aker, A. and Fuhr, N. (2021). Dataset
of natural language queries for e-commerce. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Human
Information Interaction and Retrieval. CHIIR ’21, Association for Computing Machinery, New
York, NY, USA.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3406522.3446043
Pfrommer, S., Bai, Y., Gautam, T. and Sojoudi, S. (2024). Ranking manipulation for conversational search engines. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (Y. Al-Onaizan, M. Bansal and Y.-N. Chen, eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics, Miami, Florida, USA.
URL https://aclanthology.org/2024.emnlp-main.534/
Reddy, C. K., Màrquez, L., Valero, F., Rao, N., Zaragoza, H., Bandyopadhyay, S.,
Biswas, A., Xing, A. and Subbian, K. (2022). Shopping queries dataset: A large-scale esci
benchmark for improving product search.
URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2206.06588
Sommerfeld, N., McCurry, M. and Harrington, D. (2025).
Goodbye clicks,
hello ai:
Zero-click search redefines marketing.
https://www.bain.com/insights/
goodbye-clicks-hello-ai-zero-click-search-redefines-marketing/.
Toscano, J. (2025).
Ai is destroying seo. rank now requires answer engine
optimization.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/joetoscano1/2025/09/03/
ai-is-destroying-seo-rank-now-requires-answer-engine-optimization/.
Wu, L., Zheng, Z., Qiu, Z., Wang, H., Gu, H., Shen, T., Qin, C., Zhu, C., Zhu, H., Liu,
Q., Xiong, H. and Chen, E. (2024). A survey on large language models for recommendation.
World Wide Web 27.
URL https://doi.org/10.1007/s11280-024-01291-2
Zhou, Y., Muresanu, A. I., Han, Z., Paster, K., Pitis, S., Chan, H. and Ba, J. (2023). Large
language models are human-level prompt engineers. In The Eleventh International Conference
on Learning Representations. Kigali, Rwanda.
URL https://openreview.net/pdf?id=92gvk82DE-

11

A

Re-ranker Prompts

Prompts have been formatted and adapted for presentation. Raw prompts can be found at https:
//github.com/psbagga17/E-GEO.
Ranking System Prompt
You are ChatGPT, a large language model trained by OpenAI, based on the GPT-4o architecture.
Knowledge cutoff: 2024-06
Current date: 2025-10-08
Image input capabilities: Enabled
Personality: v2
Engage warmly yet honestly with the user. Be direct; avoid ungrounded or sycophantic flattery.
Respect the user’s personal boundaries, fostering interactions that encourage independence rather
than emotional dependency on the chatbot. Maintain professionalism and grounded honesty that
best represents OpenAI and its values.
...
Full prompt available here: CL4R1T4S Extracted System Prompts

Ranking User Prompt
Here is my query: {query}
Here are the products: {formatted products}
Can you rank these products from best to worst based on which one I should buy for my query?
Make sure to rank EVERY product and include them ALL in your answer. DO NOT leave any out.
Please provide your answer as a JSON object containing the product numbers in order from best
(1st) to worst (last).
Example format: {{“ranking”: [<your ranking here>]}}
Return ONLY the JSON object, no additional text.

B

Meta-Optimizer Prompts
Meta-Optimizer System Prompt
You are an expert in prompt engineering, marketing, and writing.
Your goal is to improve the rewriting prompt so that when it rewrites a product description, that
product ranks higher compared to other products.

Meta-Optimizer User Prompt
I need you to improve a prompt that rewrites product descriptions to make them rank higher in
product comparisons.
CONTEXT:
We have a system where: 1. A product description is rewritten using a prompt (the one we’re

12

optimizing)
2. The rewritten description is shown to an LLM alongside other products and a user query
3. The LLM ranks all products from best to worst for the query 4. We measure how much the
rewritten product’s ranking improved (lower position = better)

CURRENT REWRITING PROMPT:
{current prompt}
PERFORMANCE ON {batch size} QUERIES: - Mean ranking improvement: {mean:} positions
(positive = moved up in ranking)
- Standard deviation: {std:}
- Success rate (improved ranking): {improvement rate:}%
- Median improvement: {median:.3f}
- Total experiments: {total}
- Improved (ranked higher): {improved}
- Degraded (ranked lower): {degraded}
- No change: {neutral}

HISTOGRAM OF IMPROVEMENTS: (Positive numbers = product ranked higher, negative =
ranked lower)
{histogram text}
{history section}
YOUR TASK:
1. Analyze the current prompt’s weaknesses
2. Explain your meta-reasoning about what makes products rank higher
3. Suggest specific improvements
4. Provide a complete new rewriting prompt
IMPORTANT: - The new prompt must include {{description}} placeholder where the product
description will be inserted
- The prompt should instruct the LLM to rewrite the description, not just analyze it
- Focus on what makes a product description MORE LIKELY TO RANK HIGHER in comparisons
- Maintain factual accuracy while improving appeal

Return your response in this EXACT format:
—ANALYSIS— [Explain what the current prompt is doing and its weaknesses]
—META-REASONING— [Your reasoning about what makes product descriptions rank higher and
how the prompt should guide that]
—IMPROVEMENTS— [Specific improvements you’re making to the prompt]
—NEW REWRITING PROMPT— [The complete new prompt that will rewrite product descriptions. Must include {{description}} placeholder]

13

C

GEO Prompts

C.1

Fixed System Prompt

Optimizer System Prompt
You are an expert ml researcher having previous background in SEO and search engines in general.
You are working on novel research ideas for next generation of e-commerce websites.
These websites will have language models augmented with search engines, with the task of recommending products based on the catalog of products backed by the search engine.
This new set of systems will be collectively called language engines (generative search engines).
This will require e-commerce businesses to update their SEO techniques so that the product ranks
higher in the llm generated answer.
Specifically they will use GEO (Generative Engine Optimization) techniques to boost their visibility
in the final rankings outputted by the Language Engine.

C.2

Initial User Prompts

Advertisement
Transform the following product description into an advertisement format that is engaging and
persuasive.
Use catchy phrases, slogans, and a call-to-action to entice potential customers.
Maintain the core information about the product, but present it in a way that highlights its benefits
and unique selling points.
Use marketing techniques to create a sense of urgency or exclusivity.
You may also research and use popular advertisement styles and formats to guide your rewriting.
You can find inspiration and tricks from successful ads in similar product categories.
Description: {description}

Authoritative
Transform the following product description into an authoritative style without adding or removing
any core information.
The revised description should reflect confidence, expertise, and assertiveness, while maintaining the
original content’s meaning and relevance.
The description should be assertive in its statements, such that reader believes that this is more
valuable product than other products.
End Goal is to increase the ranking of the product, by assertively saying that this is the best product
for the user.
However, the content should remain the same. That means, only individual lines and/or 2-3 sentences
can be paraphrased, while keeping the content same.
Description: {description}
Remember to be authoritative, but keep the content of text the same.
For example, line spacing, bullet points and overall structure should remain the same.
No addition or deletion of content is allowed.
Note we have to convince the reader that this is an relevant product by saying it authoritatively in

14

the description itself.
For example the addition of phrases such as “only we are authentic etc”, “we guarantee”, use of
second pronouns such as “you will not regret” etc is expected within the content itself.

Clickable
Enhance the following product description to make it more clickable and engaging, without changing
the core information.
Use persuasive language and compelling phrases that encourage users to click on the product when
they see it among other options.
Make sure the description highlights the product’s key benefits and unique selling points in an
appealing way.
Description: {description}

Competitive
Rewrite the following product description to highlight what makes this product superior compared
to others in its category.
Use confident but factual comparisons, without mentioning specific competitors.
Emphasize unique features, innovations, and advantages that set it apart, while maintaining factual
consistency with the original text.
Do not change the core information, but make it clear why this product is the best choice.
Description: {description}

Diverse
Revise the following product description to include and highlight diverse references and perspectives,
without altering the core information.
Ensure that the description reflects inclusivity and appeals to a broad audience.
Highlight features and aspects of the product that are diverse in nature.
Description: {description}

FAQ
Revise the following product description by adding FAQ sections that address common questions
related to the product.
You should keep as much of the original description as you decide is necessary to accommodate the
FAQ sections.
Ensure that the FAQ sections are relevant and provide clear, concise answers to potential customer
inquiries.
Your goal is to enhance the description’s informativeness and user-friendliness making it more
appealing to the user.
Description: {description}

Fluent
Rewrite the following product description to make it more fluent without altering the core content.
The sentences should flow smoothly from one to the next, and the language should be clear and
engaging while preserving the original information.

15

Description: {description}

Format
Improve the following product description by implementing best practices for content formatting
that enhances readability and user engagement.
Use clear headings and subheadings to organize content logically.
Incorporate bullet points and numbered lists to break down complex information.
Rewrite the description in markdown format for better presentation.
Structure content with headings and lists: Break information into digestible chunks with clear H2s,
H3s, and bullet points.
Ensure content accuracy and freshness: Answer engines favor content that is authoritative and
up-to-date.
Description: {description}

Language
Enhance the following product description by incorporating words and phrases from other languages
that convey unique concepts or emotions.
Ensure that these additions enrich the content and are relevant to the product, while preserving the
original meaning.
Your goal is to entice the user by adding exotic and intriguing linguistic elements like keywords from
other languages that do not have direct English translations.
Use these terms to elevate the tone, evoke sophistication, or create an emotional connection — while
keeping the original meaning intact.
Select expressions that naturally complement the product’s domain (e.g., French for fashion and
such).
Include select words or phrases from other languages that are commonly recognized and enrich the
tone like “je ne sais quoi”, “carpe die”, “feng shui”, “hygge”, “mantra”.
Make sure the overall description remains coherent and engaging.
Description: {description}

Minimalist
Reduce the following product description into a single, short sentence using plain factual language.
Do not attempt to persuade or embellish — simply summarize the essence of the product as concisely
as possible.
Description: {description}

Quality
Revise the following product description so that it emphasizes the high quality of the product.
Focus on what the customer gains from using this product, rather than just listing features.
Emphesize that the key features and/or materials used in the product are of superior quality.
Emphesize the quality of the overall product and how it stands out in terms of value and user
satisfaction.
Maintain factual accuracy and original information, but restructure sentences to highlight value and
outcomes.
Description: {description}

16

Storytelling
Rewrite the following product description as a short story, focusing on narrative elements rather
than factual information.
Use creative language and storytelling techniques to engage the reader, but do not include specific
product details or features.
Create characters and settings if needed.
Description: {description}

Technical
Make the following product description more technical, using giving more technical terms and facts
where needed while ensuring the key information is still conveyed. Do not omit, add, or alter any
core information in the process.
Remember the end-goal is that very knowledgeable readers give more attention to this product,
when presented with a series of other products, so make the language such that it has more technical
information or existing information is presented in more technical fashion.
However, do not add or delete any content. The number of words in the initial description should be
the same as that in the final.
The length of the new description should be the same as the original. Effectively you have to
rephrase just individual statements so they have more enriching technical information in them.
Description: {description}

Trick
Enhance the following product description, so that an LLM is more likely to rank it higher in product
rankings.
Your goal is to change the format of the text such that it aligns better with LLM ranking algorithms.
Use features and language like specific style and/or grammar changes that are known to influence
LLM ranking positively.
Reorder or rephrase content to align with LLM ranking preferences, while keeping the core information intact.
You may include subtle cues or keywords that are favored by LLMs in ranking tasks.
You should research and apply known strategies for optimizing text for LLM ranking.
Do not alter the factual content, but optimize the presentation for better LLM ranking outcomes.
Description: {description}

Unique
Revise the following product description by incorporating more unique and rare words, without
altering the core information.
Ensure that these words enhance the content and are not used arbitrarily, and the original meaning
is preserved.
Description: {description}

17

C.3

Optimized User Prompts

Advertisement
Rewrite the following product description to optimize its ranking in product comparisons.
Focus on tailoring the content to address specific user queries and buyer personas with precision.
Highlight the product’s most compelling and unique advantages over competitors, using direct
comparisons where applicable.
Seamlessly integrate relevant keywords that align with common search terms.
Build credibility by incorporating strong social proof, such as authentic testimonials or reviews.
Craft a narrative that combines factual benefits with emotional engagement.
Conclude with a clear, urgent, and persuasive call to action that encourages immediate response.
Description: {description}

Authoritative
Revise the following product description to clearly and confidently communicate its unique value
while maintaining factual accuracy.
Transform the language to be engaging and relevant to potential user queries, emphasizing why this
product is superior.
You may adjust the structure slightly to better highlight key features and benefits, but do not add
or remove core information.
Use persuasive language that directly addresses the user’s needs and showcases the product’s
advantages over competitors.
Description: {description}
Ensure the revised description is both authoritative and empathetic, appealing directly to the
reader’s interests and needs.
Use phrases that convey confidence, such as “experience unmatched quality” or “designed for your
ultimate satisfaction,” while maintaining the integrity of the original content.

Clickable
Revise the following product description to maximize its ranking in product comparisons by focusing
on:
- Seamlessly integrating relevant keywords and phrases to align with common search queries
and improve SEO.
- Highlighting distinctive features and benefits in a way that clearly differentiates the product from
competitors, using specific, comparative language.
- Structuring the description with bullet points for clarity and emphasis on critical information.
- Balancing factual accuracy with a narrative that resonates emotionally with users, addressing both
their needs and desires.
- Proactively addressing potential user objections or concerns to enhance trust and credibility.
- Leveraging user testimonials or expert endorsements to further increase the product’s appeal and
reliability.
Description: {description}

18

Competitive
Rewrite the following product description to position this product as the leading choice in its
category.
Highlight its unique features and innovations by directly comparing them to typical competitors,
demonstrating clear advantages.
Use precise, factual language to convey the tangible benefits these features offer, addressing common
user queries and potential objections.
Include bullet points or lists for emphasis, and integrate any available customer testimonials or
evidence of effectiveness.
Ensure the description is persuasive, engaging, and maintains consistency with the original text.
Description: {description}

Diverse
Revise the following product description to effectively highlight its unique features and advantages
over competitors, using clear and specific comparisons.
Focus on aligning the description with likely user queries by incorporating relevant keywords and
search terms.
Integrate social proof elements, such as customer testimonials or data points, to bolster credibility
while ensuring they complement the core message.
Strive for clarity, conciseness, and a balance between emotional appeal and factual precision to create
a compelling and informative narrative that stands out in product comparisons.
Description: {description}

FAQ
Revise the following product description to enhance its ranking in product comparisons by focusing
on user intent and query relevance.
Identify the most common questions or concerns potential buyers may have and structure the
description to proactively address them.
Clearly articulate competitive advantages and unique selling points that directly respond to these
user needs.
Use data-driven evidence, such as customer reviews or ratings, to support claims where available.
Incorporate concise and impactful language that balances emotional appeal with factual accuracy.
Ensure SEO-friendly phrasing by integrating relevant keywords related to the product type and
query context.
Description: {description}

Fluent
Rewrite the following product description to make it highly relevant to specific user queries and
intents, incorporating common search terms and phrases.
Focus on the direct benefits and unique features that address specific user needs and solve their
problems, using data, statistics, or testimonials for credibility.
Clearly articulate the product’s comparative advantages over competitors with specific examples.
Use persuasive and engaging language to create a strong emotional connection with the reader, and
include a compelling call-to-action that highlights the product’s unique selling proposition.
Ensure the description remains factual and accurate.

19

Description: {description}

Format
Rewrite the following product description to maximize its ranking in product comparisons by
focusing on SEO, user intent, and competitive differentiation.
Structure the content using clear headings (H2, H3) and bullet points for readability and engagement.
1. Optimize for Keywords: Integrate primary and secondary keywords that align with potential user queries, enhancing visibility and relevance.
2. Highlight Unique Value Proposition: Clearly communicate what sets this product apart
from competitors, focusing on unique features and benefits.
3. SEO-Friendly Elements: Include meta descriptions and, if applicable, alt text for images to
improve search engine discoverability.
4. Tailor to User Journey: Craft content that resonates with users at different stages of their
buying journey, from awareness to decision-making.
5. Engage with Emotional and Rational Appeals: Use language that emotionally connects
with users while providing rational evidence of the product’s value.
6. Incorporate Social Proof : Add testimonials, reviews, and accolades to build trust and
authority.
7. Compelling Call to Action: Inspire immediate interest and action with dynamic, actionoriented language.
Ensure factual accuracy and maintain a user-centric focus, making the description both compelling and informative.
Use markdown format for better presentation.
Description: {description}

Language
Rewrite the following product description to enhance its ranking in product comparisons.
Focus on clearly addressing user queries by highlighting the product’s unique selling points and
quantifiable benefits.
Use direct and concise language to differentiate the product from competitors, while incorporating
factual data and relevant testimonials to support claims.
Ensure the description aligns with user search intent and concludes with a logical, compelling
call-to-action that integrates the product into the user’s lifestyle.
Maintain factual accuracy throughout.
Description: {description}

Minimalist
Rewrite the following product description to enhance its clarity and direct relevance to common user
queries.
Focus on concisely articulating the product’s key features and benefits, and how they address specific
user needs or desires.
Differentiate the product from competitors by highlighting unique advantages.
Use factual language that resonates with potential buyers, and incorporate social proof, such as
testimonials or expert endorsements, where it directly supports key points.

20

Ensure the description remains factual, easily scannable, and compelling.
Description: {description}

Quality
Revise the following product description to maximize its ranking potential in product comparisons.
Focus on these strategies:
- Craft a compelling opening narrative that immediately connects with the target audience’s
desires and aspirations.
- Highlight the product’s unique selling propositions using clear and impactful language, setting it
apart from competitors.
- Integrate user-centric language that speaks directly to the audience’s specific needs, pain points,
and desires.
- Seamlessly incorporate relevant keywords and phrases to align with common search queries and
user intents.
- Leverage social proof by including testimonials, user reviews, or evidence of effectiveness to build
credibility and trust.
- Develop an emotional narrative that demonstrates how the product fits into the consumer’s lifestyle
and fulfills their aspirations.
- Highlight quantifiable benefits such as effectiveness, awards, or certifications to enhance credibility.
- Conclude with a strong, persuasive call to action that encourages engagement or immediate
purchase, tailored to the audience’s motivations.
Description: {description}

Storytelling
Rewrite the following product description to maximize its ranking potential in product comparisons
by clearly highlighting unique selling propositions and quantifiable benefits.
Focus on aligning the description with specific user needs and search intent by illustrating real-world
applications and transformative impacts.
Incorporate elements that build trust, such as testimonials, data, or awards, to enhance credibility.
Differentiate the product from competitors by emphasizing its unique features and advantages.
Ensure the description is concise, factually accurate, emotionally engaging, and includes a compelling
narrative that resonates with the user’s context and desires.
Description: {description}

Technical
Revise the following product description to significantly enhance its ranking potential in product
comparisons.
Focus on tailoring the content to address specific customer queries and pain points effectively.
Highlight the product’s unique features and competitive advantages, clearly differentiating it from
alternatives.
Integrate relevant keywords seamlessly to boost search engine visibility, ensuring they align with user
intent.
Use persuasive and data-driven language to substantiate claims and deliver a compelling narrative.
Maintain factual accuracy and engaging storytelling to guide potential buyers confidently toward a

21

purchasing decision.
Description: {description}

Trick
Rewrite the following product description to significantly enhance its likelihood of ranking higher in
product comparisons by an LLM.
Tailor the description to the specific product category, aligning closely with common user queries
and pain points.
Emphasize the product’s unique features and benefits using persuasive language that balances
emotional appeal with factual clarity.
Seamlessly integrate relevant keywords to align with search intent and enhance SEO.
Establish credibility through subtle elements of social proof, such as testimonials or awards, and
create a sense of urgency to encourage immediate user action.
Ensure the narrative is engaging, precise, and tailored to resonate with the target audience.
Description: {description}

Unique
Revise the following product description to enhance clarity and appeal to potential customers.
Focus on incorporating relevant high-value keywords and emphasizing the product’s unique features
and benefits.
Ensure the description is engaging, easy to read, and aligned with common user queries, while
maintaining factual accuracy.
Description: {description}

22

