OPINION PAPER

Bridging the Gap Between Information Seeking
and Product Search Systems: Q&A
Recommendation for E-commerce
Saar Kuzi

Shervin Malmasi

Amazon.com, Inc.
Seattle, WA, USA

Amazon.com Inc.
Seattle, WA, USA

skuzi@amazon.com

malmasi@amazon.com

Abstract
Consumers on a shopping mission often leverage both product search and information seeking
systems, such as web search engines and Question Answering (QA) systems, in an iterative
process to improve their understanding of available products and reach a purchase decision.
While product search is useful for shoppers to find the actual products meeting their requirements in the catalog, information seeking systems can be utilized to answer any questions
they may have to refine those requirements. The recent success of Large Language Models
(LLMs) has opened up an opportunity to bridge the gap between the two tasks to help customers achieve their goals quickly and effectively by integrating conversational QA within
product search. In this paper, we propose to recommend users Question-Answer (Q&A) pairs
that are relevant to their product search and can help them make a purchase decision. We
discuss the different aspects of the problem including the requirements and characteristics
of the Q&A pairs, their generation, and the optimization of the Q&A recommendation task.
We highlight the challenges, open problems, and suggested solutions to encourage future
research in this emerging area.

1

Introduction

Currently, most shoppers looking to purchase a product online rely on both e-commerce and
information seeking systems. Search engines in online shopping websites are built on top of a
catalog of the available products and are used by shoppers to explore the different offerings,
obtain product specific information, and finally make a purchase [Sondhi et al., 2018]. Information
seeking systems (mainly web search engines, but more recently also question answering systems)
are used by shoppers to complement their product search. This is because users often do not have
enough knowledge to confidently make a purchase decision and thus leverage information seeking
systems to acquire relevant knowledge to assist them in their shopping journey [Rowley, 2000;
Branco et al., 2012].
This process, however, is not optimal. First, users that search for products may not have
enough knowledge to ask the right questions in an information seeking system. Second, an independent information seeking system does not directly take into account the full context of the
ACM SIGIR Forum

1

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

Update Requirements

More Knowledge
Needed

Information
Seeking Question

Information Seeking
System

Sufficient
Requirements for
Product Search

Product Search
Query

Product Search
System

Product
Requirements
Purchase
Decision

Update Requirements

Figure 1. The current online shopping process. Users are switching between information seeking systems
and product search to reach a purchase decision. The dashed arrow represents our envisioned approach
to bridge the gap between the two systems.

user in product search (e.g., the product detail page that the user is viewing or the set of search
results). For those reasons, as illustrated in Figure 1, users would often need to frequently switch
between the two systems to refine their requirements and finally reach a purchase decision. This
results in a lengthy process requiring substantial user effort to achieve their shopping goals. Some
recent work has attempted to address these issues by enabling product search systems to answer
informational queries [Chen et al., 2023], but combining these distinct features in a single interface
may not be intuitive for users.
In this opinion paper, we propose a new product search paradigm to bridge the gap between
information seeking and product search systems. Specifically, the idea is to suggest Q&A pairs
to shoppers at different places in a product search system, as illustrated in Figure 2. This can
assist them in acquiring important purchase-related information with minimal effort. This new
direction is quickly becoming a reality, as exemplified by Amazon’s new Rufus conversational
shopping experience launched in February 2024.1 We discuss the different aspects of the proposed
approach including the characteristics of the suggested questions and answers, Q&A generation
approaches, quality control, and the optimization of the recommendation task. The paper can
serve as a roadmap for implementing such a system, and highlights the different challenges and
open problems that need to be addressed.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. We begin by explaining the shopping journey
of users in online shopping and how it intersects with the suggested Q&As. Then, we move to
discuss the different requirements from the questions and answers in such a system, generation
approaches, and quality control. We conclude the paper with a discussion about different directions
for addressing the optimization of the recommendation system with user feedback.
1

https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/retail/amazon-rufus

ACM SIGIR Forum

2

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

Figure 2. An illustration of the suggested questions interface for the auto-complete stage.

2

Q&A and the Shopping Journey

To implement a useful Q&A suggestion system in product search, it is crucial to understand the
shopping journey of online customers and how Q&As can be integrated in it successfully. Online
shopping users start their journey with a shopping goal which is a set of requirements from a
desired product. The users would then go through several stages that dictate the specificity of
those requirements. In general, users would come with an initial set of requirement that are
expected to narrow down toward the chosen product as they view different options from the
catalog and acquire any necessary knowledge related to their search. Users in product search
would usually be in one of the following stages:
1. Exploration: users are at the beginning of their shopping journey and are learning about
the product space and are refining their requirements.
2. Comparison: users have narrowed down their requirements and are comparing across several
products that meet them.
3. Final Consideration: users are focused on a small set of products and ask specific questions
about them to make a purchase decision.
From the system perspective, the different stages correspond to different user experiences in the
product search system which result in different modalities of Q&A recommendations, as illustrated
in Table 1. The first one is auto-complete Q&A suggestion. Specifically, the idea is to present
broad and exploratory related questions while users type their product search query (see Figure 2).
The second one is Search Result Page (SERP) Q&A suggestion. The idea here is to suggest
questions that are embedded in the SERP. This is similar to the “People Also Asked” suggested
questions in web search engines [Matias et al., 2017] but would need to include shopping specific
questions that are related to the products being shown. The final modality is product detail
ACM SIGIR Forum

3

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

Table 1. Examples of suggested questions in different entry points of a product search system.

Auto-complete
Context

“coffee”
What are the different types of coffee machines?
Questions How to choose a coffee table for your space?
What coffee mugs are in style?
Context “juicer”
What features should I look for when buying a juicer?
Questions What are the best juicers for beginners?
What types of juicers are good for leafy greens?
Search Result Page
Context

“coffee machine single cup”
How do single cup coffee machines work?
Questions What maintenance is required for single-cup coffee machines?
What are the differences between single-cup machines and traditional ones?
Context “cold press juicer”
How do cold press juicers compare to centrifugal juicers?
Questions What are the pros and cons of vertical vs. horizontal cold press juicers?
What are some popular brands of cold press juicers?
Product Detail Page
Context

“Amazon Basics Single Cup Coffee Machine”
Is it easy to clean?
Questions What are the dimensions?
Is the tray adjustable?
Context “Vertical Cold Press Juicer for Fruits and Vegetables”
What do customers think about its durability?
Questions Is it noisy?
Are the parts dishwasher safe?

ACM SIGIR Forum

4

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

page Q&A suggestion. The idea here is to suggest Q&A pairs that are relevant to a specific
product.
The different entry points, since users encounter them in different stages of their shopping
journey, require different types of Q&As. For example, questions in the SERP are expected to
be broader than those in the product detail page since users have not yet narrowed down their
requirements to a specific product and are still learning about the different options. Similarly,
questions in the auto-complete modality are expected to be even broader than SERP questions
because the shopping goal of the user at this stage is unclear to the system.

3

Q&A Requirements

Presenting users with the most appropriate questions to their shopping goal and the specific stage
of their shopping journey is crucial for the success of the Q&A system. First, we note that questions
can represent various intents that can be relevant to different stages in the shopping journey. For
example, a question which asks to compare between two products or product categories (e.g.,
“What is the difference between single-cup and traditional coffee machines?”) can be appropriate
for the exploration and comparison stages but not as much to the detail page of a product. On
the other hand, a question with the intent of learning about an aspect of a product (e.g., “What
is the voltage of this coffee machine?”) is more appropriate once the user narrowed down their
search to very few options. Some of the popular intents include the following ones.
• Aspect: Seeking information about an aspect of a specific product or a group of products.
• Comparison: Comparing two or more products, or different aspects of the same product.
• General Knowledge: Seeking some general knowledge that may help the user choose the
right product.
• Superlative: Asking for the best products on a given aspect.
• How-to: Seeking guidance on how to use a specific product or a group of products.
• Offer: Various topics like pricing, shipping, return policy, refund policy, product availability,
and warranty.
• Subjective: Seeking opinions of other users.
• Search: Recommendation for products that meet some requirements.
Across the different intents, there can be several common requirements for the questions in a
specific shopping journey stage. A minimal requirement is for the questions to be relevant to the
context (e.g., the query or the product detail page). The question must also be useful for making a
purchase decision given the current stage of the user. Another important requirement is specificity.
We want to a question to as specific as needed given the user background and the shopping journey
phase. Finally, we want the questions to be concise by including only the necessary information
to users to accommodate small screens and the short attention span of users.
As for the answers to the questions, there are also several general requirements that we need
to consider in the context of product search. The minimal requirement from the answer is to be
factually correct. This is a very important requirement as users are relying on those recommendations when buying a product and may lose their trust in the system if wrong information led
them to make a wrong purchase decision. Since the answers are within a product search system,
ACM SIGIR Forum

5

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

another requirement is for them to be always shopping related to help users in their shopping journey. For example, if the question is “What is the difference between espresso and drip coffee?”,
the answer may also recommend related products such as espresso machines. Another important
consideration is for the answer to leverage the right type of information based on the question
intent. For instance, while subjective questions would mainly rely on customer reviews, product
aspect questions would leverage the product catalog. Finally, similarly to questions, we would like
the answers to be informative but concise.

4

Q&A Generation

To obtain the questions and answers for Q&A recommendation, one common approach used in the
previous work relies on query logs to mine popular user questions [Mitra et al., 2021, 2020]. Then,
based on the questions, answers can be generated using abstractive QA from relevant documents.
This approach has several limitations in the context of product search engines. First, users in
product search engines mainly use keyword queries and do not write fully formed questions,
making approaches that rely on logs not applicable. Second, product search engines are built on
top of product catalogs and do not typically have easy access to external knowledge.
For those reasons, we propose to use LLMs for the generation of Q&A pairs. Using LLMs is
advantageous for the task since they can generate both the question and the answer from their
internal knowledge [Hämäläinen et al., 2023; Hartvigsen et al., 2022]. To generate questions that
are useful for the context, we can provide the context information as part of the input (e.g., the
query, items in the SERP, or the product detail page). LLMs also have good capability to process
long inputs, which means that we can provide it with different types of data to generate a variety
of interesting questions. For example, for product detail page questions we can use customer
reviews, the product specifications, and relevant external knowledge to generate questions. Some
of these ideas have been explored by Vedula et al. [2024] in the context of shopping assistants.
Using an LLM, we are also interested in controlling the different aspects of a question to satisfy
the different requirements such as specificity and intent. While this can be potentially achieved
through appropriate prompting, there can be a limit on the instruction following capability of the
model given a very long prompt. For that reason, one option can be to create different prompts
for the various scenarios to optimize the question generation for them. For example, we expect
the instructions for question generation for SERP to be different than the ones of the product
page. Finally, it is also important to note that some aspects that are needed to be controlled,
such as intent, are domain specific, making it potentially necessary to further fine-tune the LLM
to follow the instructions successfully.
For answer generation, similarly to the case of questions, a promising technique would be to
use retrieval augmented generation with an LLM. One key consideration in doing that is to decide
which retrieval evidences are relevant to the specific question. For example, while customer reviews
are the most useful for subjective questions, product aspect questions may benefit the most from
information in the product catalog. Ideally, we can provide all of the different sources of retrieval
to the LLM. This approach, however, may have some disadvantages such as input length limit,
latency, and sensitivity to noise. An alternative approach can be to leverage different retrieval
sources for different types of questions which would require a question classification model.

ACM SIGIR Forum

6

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

One aspect that is common for both the question and the answer is personalization. We
envision the ideal Q&A system as one that provides questions and answers that are tailored to
the specific user. Specifically, we would like to propose questions that are a good fit for the user’s
background knowledge and interests. To achieve that, one way would be to leverage information
about past purchases of the user that can be included in a personalized prompt to generate specific
questions and answers for them.
Finally, deploying and maintaining an LLM-based Q&A recommendation system also poses
challenges for high latency and costs associated with the inference of a large model. Some solutions
for that can include caching of the questions, offline generation for the head of the traffic, and
online ranking of offline generated questions.

5

Evaluation and Quality Control

The implementation of mechanisms for quality control of the Q&A feature are essential for maintaining user trust and ensuring a consistent and helpful experience at production-scale. One of the
main challenges for implementing such a mechanism is the large scale of possible input contexts
which include the products in the catalog as well as search queries and query prefixes. A reliable
quality control mechanism at this scale can be achieved by using a combination of human annotations, automatic (LLM-based) evaluation, and online engagement signals. The quality control
should verify two main aspects. First, the questions should satisfy some minimal requirements
to be acceptable. Second, the questions should be useful to the users, where there can several
degrees of usefulness.
The minimal requirements for questions should be assessed in a point-wise manner by examining each question independently with either a human annotator or an LLM. Below are some of
the basic requirements that should be considered.
• Relevance: At the minimum, the questions presented should be relevant to the context in
which they are presented. For answers, we would like to ensure that they are at least relevant
to the questions.
• Hallucination-free: It is important to verify that the number of hallucinating cases is minimal
and under a predefined threshold. This is crucial for maintaining user trust since they are
relying on the provided information to make a purchase decision.
• Style: The questions should be natural sounding and well-formed. Furthermore, depending
on other user experience guidelines, we would like to ensure that the questions and answers
are following a specific style. For example, showing concise questions in friendly tone can
be such a requirement.
• Trust and Safety: At the minimum, we must ensure that we do not generate questions and
answers that contain information that can hurt the trust of the users, be offensive, or result
in actions that are not safe.
For testing the usefulness of questions, the main goal is to find to what extent the questions and
answers can help users to make a purchase decision given the context in which they are shown. The
evaluation of usefulness can be achieved by leveraging three complementary approaches. First,
using online engagement signals such as clicks or purchases can provide indication for the usefulness
of questions. While this approach directly measures the customer engagement, it can contain noise
ACM SIGIR Forum

7

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

and thus can only focus on the head of the traffic. Furthermore, it can be challenging to factor
out other reasons for the user actions. Another approach would be to rely on LLM annotations.
This approach can be done at scale to increase the testing coverage, but can biased to the LLM
assumptions of what is considered useful. Finally, human annotations can be used at a smaller
scale, but the utility of a question is subjective and can depend on the knowledge of the annotator,
thus requiring multiple annotators to achieve reliability.
Building a representative evaluation data set is another challenge that needs to be addressed at
production scale. The data set should be constructed carefully to truthfully represent the product
catalog and the query log. Some factors to consider when sampling the data are the product
categories, query specificity, product popularity, and considering both the head and the tail of the
query log distribution. Ideally, we would want to create two evaluation data sets. The first one
would be a static one which would not change over time and is useful for validating model and
system changes. The second one would be a dynamic data set which is changing from time to
time and can help assess the influence of seasonal trends, such as holidays and special events.

6

Optimizing Engagement with User Feedback Loops

How to optimize the Q&A recommendation system with LLMs is an important aspect of the
system. While this topic has not been investigated extensively due the recency of LLM-based
recommender systems, it is likely to attract growing interest. For example, Senel et al. [2024]
recently investigated how generative explore-exploit methods could be used to optimize cohortlevel user engagement with LLM-generated content, as measured by click through rates (CTR).
There are several challenges that need to be addressed for the effective optimization of the Q&A
recommendation problem.
First, correctly leveraging users engagement signals is a key factor for the success of the optimization process. Engagement signals can include various direct user actions such as question
clicks and hovering over the Q&A widget. Other actions are more indirect and can occur later in
the session such as product purchase or add-to-cart. While these actions can indicate helpfulness
of previous interactions with the Q&A widget, they can also be potentially attributed to other
types of interactions. Ideally, the optimization problem should correctly balance between the different types of engagement signals according to the shopping stage of the user and the question
type. For example, clicking on informational questions at an early stage can indicate very strong
engagement even if there is no purchase at the end of the session, since the customer is still learning
about the product space. This can be achieved through techniques such as multi-objective ranking
[Carmel et al., 2020], feature representation, and implementing specific optimization mechanisms
for the different locations of the Q&A widget (e.g., SERP vs. detail page).
Another aspect that is needed to be addressed is the specific optimization methodology. One
idea can be to use traditional online approaches like multi-armed bandit [Slivkins et al., 2019]
or learning-to-rank [Liu et al., 2009] to select the best questions. A major disadvantage of those
approaches is that they cannot directly influence the question and answer generation by the LLM.
This may slow down the question improvement process and is limited in terms of exploration of
new questions. To try to mitigate this problem, another idea for the optimization would be to
guide the LLM in generating questions to optimize user engagement. For example, for a given
context we can provide examples of questions that resulted in high click-through rate and prompt
ACM SIGIR Forum

8

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

the model to generate some new ones. Other more established techniques like RLHF [Christiano
et al., 2017; Ouyang et al., 2022] and DPO [Rafailov et al., 2024] can be used to this end. For
example, we can use engagement data to create pairwise preferences for optimization. Finally,
one can design a hybrid approach to leverage both the traditional algorithms as well as LLMs.
For example, selecting the important question features based on traditional online algorithms and
providing them to the LLM to guide the generation can be one approach in this direction.
Due to the large scale of the Q&A system, all optimization approaches can suffer from data
sparsity problems. One implication of this is that it may take a significant amount of time to
obtain sufficient engagement signals that are representative for a large number of contexts. One
idea can be to apply optimization first on just the head of the traffic and extend it gradually.
Another approach that can be studied would be to use an LLM as a simulated user to generate
synthetic data for the optimization.

7

Conclusion

In this opinion paper we described our vision for the Q&A recommendation problem to improve the
experience of users in online shopping. The recent success of LLMs has opened up the opportunity
to address this problem and bridge the gap between information seeking and product search
systems. Implementing and maintaining such an LLM-based system at production scale poses
different challenges that need to be addressed and require research and engineering innovations.
Those challenges include the controllability of the Q&A generation, ranking optimization, quality
control, and latency. The paper outlined different ideas to address those problems to encourage
the research on the topic.

References
Fernando Branco, Monic Sun, and J Miguel Villas-Boas. Optimal search for product information.
Management Science, 58(11):2037–2056, 2012.
David Carmel, Elad Haramaty, Arnon Lazerson, and Liane Lewin-Eytan. Multi-objective ranking
optimization for product search using stochastic label aggregation. In Proceedings of The Web
Conference 2020, pages 373–383, 2020.
Zhiyu Chen, Jason Choi, Besnik Fetahu, Oleg Rokhlenko, and Shervin Malmasi. Generate-thenretrieve: Intent-aware faq retrieval in product search. In The 61st Annual Meeting Of The
Association For Computational Linguistics, 2023.
Paul F Christiano, Jan Leike, Tom Brown, Miljan Martic, Shane Legg, and Dario Amodei. Deep
reinforcement learning from human preferences. Advances in neural information processing
systems, 30, 2017.
Perttu Hämäläinen, Mikke Tavast, and Anton Kunnari. Evaluating large language models in
generating synthetic hci research data: a case study. In Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference
on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pages 1–19, 2023.
ACM SIGIR Forum

9

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

Thomas Hartvigsen, Saadia Gabriel, Hamid Palangi, Maarten Sap, Dipankar Ray, and Ece Kamar. Toxigen: A large-scale machine-generated dataset for adversarial and implicit hate speech
detection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.09509, 2022.
Tie-Yan Liu et al. Learning to rank for information retrieval. volume 3, pages 225–331. Now
Publishers, Inc., 2009.
Yossi Matias, Dvir Keysar, Gal Chechik, Ziv Bar-Yossef, and Tomer Shmiel. Generating related
questions for search queries, June 13 2017. US Patent 9,679,027.
Rajarshee Mitra, Manish Gupta, and Sandipan Dandapat. Transformer models for recommending
related questions in web search. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM International Conference on
Information & Knowledge Management, pages 2153–2156, 2020.
Rajarshee Mitra, Rhea Jain, Aditya Srikanth Veerubhotla, and Manish Gupta. Zero-shot multilingual interrogative question generation for” people also ask” at bing. In Proceedings of the
27th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining, pages 3414–3422,
2021.
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida, Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong
Zhang, Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al. Training language models to follow
instructions with human feedback. Advances in neural information processing systems, 35:
27730–27744, 2022.
Rafael Rafailov, Archit Sharma, Eric Mitchell, Christopher D Manning, Stefano Ermon, and
Chelsea Finn. Direct preference optimization: Your language model is secretly a reward model.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
Jennifer Rowley. Product search in e-shopping: a review and research propositions. Journal of
consumer marketing, 17(1):20–35, 2000.
Lütfi Kerem Senel, Besnik Fetahu, Davis Yoshida, Zhiyu Chen, Giuseppe Castellucci, Nikhita
Vedula, Jason Choi, and Shervin Malmasi. Generative explore-exploit: Training-free optimization of generative recommender systems using llm optimizers. 2024.
Aleksandrs Slivkins et al. Introduction to multi-armed bandits. Foundations and Trends® in
Machine Learning, 12(1-2):1–286, 2019.
Parikshit Sondhi, Mohit Sharma, Pranam Kolari, and ChengXiang Zhai. A taxonomy of queries
for e-commerce search. In The 41st International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research &
Development in Information Retrieval, pages 1245–1248, 2018.
Nikhita Vedula, Oleg Rokhlenko, and Shervin Malmasi. Question suggestion for conversational
shopping assistants using product metadata. 2024.

ACM SIGIR Forum

10

Vol. 58 No. 1 – June 2024

